Security Analyst Journey
Welcome to the cyber security - a world of evolving threats, where every click could hide an attack, and every attack could destroy the business. This is why we need defenders who analyze attacks, stop breaches, and keep companies safe. Your journey as a Junior Security Analyst begins here, in this TryHackMe room!

You start your work day from a quick scrolling through the cyber news for the last week. As usual, big companies are getting breached, threat groups are running full-scale attacks, and new vulnerabilities are popping here and there. You are the first line of defense, and every day you protect your company from apeearing in the cyber news.

Four screenshots of recent cyber incidents: record-breaking DDoS attacks, campaigns against NATO countries, supply chain attacks, and SaaS compromises leading to data leaks.

Above are the cyber news for September 2025 (The Hacker News(opens in new tab))

Your Daily Duties
As a Junior Security Analyst, also called a SOC Level 1 Analyst, you work in a 24/7 SOC team and mostly review the security alerts together with your colleagues. To do it efficiently, you will need practice and skills learned through this path. During your work shift, you would typically:

Monitor and investigate various security alerts
Participate in SOC brainstorms and workshops
Cooperate with other teams to keep your company safe
Constantly learn and discover new attacks and defenses
Answer the questions below
Which team do you work with as a Junior Security Analyst? SOC



Three junior analysts looking at their screens. The background is full of charts, worldmaps, and other visualizations.
SOC and Your Team
You are not alone in monitoring the alerts and securing the whole company. A lot of people support you with your job. SOC engineers are configuring the security tools, senior analysts are helping with complex attacks, and a manager is trying to keep everything under control. A Security Operations Center (SOC) is your big team that protects the company, each role in its own way. Now, let's meet your colleagues!

Will Griffin
Senior Analyst



Will is your closest colleague. He helps you and other Junior analysts when something is unclear and handles complex cases after you do the initial analysis.

Corey Stevens
SOC Engineer



Corey doesn't have shifts and doesn't analyze the alerts. Instead, he maintains security tools and configures the alerts to make your analyst's job easier.

Emily Conway
SOC Manager



Emily tries to keep everything under control. She reports SOC results to the top management and makes sure you aren't lost in that big new cyber security world.

Daniel Herrera
Incident Responder



You don't work with Daniel every day, but when he's online, you know something serious has happened. He is called on demand during major incidents.

Your Daily Duties
Are you inspired by your colleagues' work and wish to advance to their roles? Cyber security is a broad field, and with time you'll find the path that excites you most. But before that, you need to gain work experience as a Junior Security Analyst. Along the way, you'll have many lessons and challenges, where you may:

Detect and prevent a data stealer infection on a coworker's laptop
Analyze and stop a phishing campaign targeting the finance team
Participate in a bigger incident, such as a full-scale ransomware attack
Team up with your teammates to build detection rules and automations
Go beyond cyber and understand how companies operate from the inside






